# Omai
The _Omai Digitization Project_ consists of two digital projects, a virtual reality recreation of three miniatures designed by Phillipe De Loutherbourg for _Omai, Or, A Trip Round the World_ in 1786, which Dr. David Taylor at Oxford University has overseen. And a digital edition of the 1786 script for _Omai_, encoded to Textual Encoding Initiative (TEI) standards produced by me. At this stage in the project, I have used the TEI to encode from the front matter through the end of part one of the script. As this is my first time working on encoding a text using TEI, a large portion of the preparatory work necessary to begin encoding was familiarizing myself with the coding standards used for dramas and poetry—as many of the lines are performed in verse. I focused on encoding the text as close as possible to the source document with minor adaptations for clarity: such as updated and unified spelling, switching the long ‘s’ characters with standard ‘s,’ numerical dates instead of Roman numeral dates, and marking author notes numerically instead of with symbols. Going forward with the TEI portion of the project, I will continue to encode part two and the procession, improve readability in the front matter—particularly the character and cast list, and add editorial notes.
	Accompanying these digital resources will be a section about the project and informational pages that explain the scope of the digital work—the about section will need to be updated as future work changes the outcome of the digital projects—the implementation and importance of the projects to contemporary scholarship on Omai. The contextual information on this page will provide readers with foundational information about the significance of the pantomime in the eighteenth century, Phillipe De Loutherbourg, Captain Cook’s voyages, and Mai. I have curated the summaries of these topics to provide a foundational understanding of the history behind the performance, creator, and pop culture in the late eighteenth century to enrich the virtual learning experience and provide references for further research on _Omai_. 
I began working on this project under the guidance of Dr. Misty Anderson at the University of Tennessee during our English 640 class: God on Stage where we first engagged with the script of _Omai_ in relationship to other 17th century pantomimes.
